The Java programming language has adapted to a changing technology landscape for more than 25 years. It plays an essential role building sustainable 
software architectures and applications. The combination of efficiency and portability encourages businesses to build their applications using Java.

The introduction of AWS Lambda  has changed the desired characteristics of programming languages. Each Lambda execution environment only processes a 
single invocation at a time, the lifetime of a function is short, and resources are constrained. In this model, the start-up time of an application and the 
memory footprint is critical.

The Java ecosystem is adapting and introduced several new projects to foster innovation. Project Leyden  will address startup time, memory footprint and 
peak performance by introducing a concept of static images to the Java Platform, and to the JDK. The changes to the release cycle mean that innovation 
will be delivered faster. Open source projects like GraalVM  are already able to create static images using their native-image  tool.

Learning Objectives
In this workshop you will learn how to build cloud-native Java applications, best practices and performance optimizations techniques and how to migrate 
your existing Java application to AWS Lambda. The workshop is structured in the following independent modules.

Modules
From Serverful to Serverless Java with AWS Lambda (2 hours)

In this module you will learn how to bring your traditional Java Spring application to AWS Lambda with minimal effort and iteratively apply optimizations 
to get the best out of your Serverless Java experience. You will get an overview of best practices, performance trade-offs and the design considerations for 
each step to be able to make well-informed decisions when bringing enterprise Java applications to AWS Lambda.

Accelerate Serverless Java with GraalVM (2 hours)

In the first part of this module you will get an overview of the best practices and concepts involved when building a cloud-native Serverless Java application 
on AWS Lambda. In the second part, we’ll introduce GraalVM native images and modify the existing application to gain up to 80% performance improvement 
during cold-starts.

Starting up faster with AWS Lambda SnapStart (2 hours)

At re:Invent 2022, AWS announced Lambda SnapStart for Java functions. This feature enables builders to achieve up to 10x faster function startup performance 
for Java functions, at no additional cost, and typically with minimal or no code changes.

In this module you will learn how SnapStart addresses Java function performance. You will learn how to enable SnapStart with infrastructure as code, how to 
customize your snapshot behavior with runtime hooks and identify potential refactoring areas with automated tooling. Lastly, you will apply additional best 
practices for performance tuning and snapshot creation. After this module you will be able to make well-informed decisions when using SnapStart for your 
Java based AWS Lambda functions.

Target Audience
Developers, Architects, DevOps, SysOps, Testers. (Anyone working with Java applications who is interested in using AWS Lambda)

Experience Required
Level: 300 (Advanced)

In the workshop you will be editing and changing Java source code. It would be helpful to be familiar with the Java programming language. If you are not, 
that's ok, please follow the instructions carefully.

You will also need a basic understanding of AWS Lambda.

Cost
The majority of the workshop uses serverless services which you only pay for when you use them. Following the steps in the workshop will result in minimal cost.

The workshop uses an Amazon RDS PostgreSQL database, it's cost in the eu-west-1 region is: 1 instance(s) x 0.078 USD hourly x (100 / 100 Utilized/Month) x 
730 hours in a month = 56.9400 USD Amazon RDS PostgreSQL instances cost (monthly): 56.94 USD

If you choose to use AWS Cloud9 as a development environment it will be charged at the EC2 instance price .

Supported regions
If you run the workshop on your own, you can choose any AWS region. However, if you want to use AWS Cloud9 as a development environment, 
you should check the AWS Regional services list  to see if it's available in the desired region.

At an AWS-managed event you can just follow the instructions of your facilitator who will preselect a region for you.

Clean Up
At the end of each module there are instructions on how to remove all the AWS resources used. You don't need to have completed the module to do this, 
you can do it at any time.

